# License information

The OpenVADL distribution includes both the OpenVADL frontend with its
different generators and various processor specifications. These are
separate programs that are distributed together for the convenience of
the users and they have separate licenses. Each source file has an SPDX
copyright and license identifier to clarify the terms of every file.

## OpenVADL frontend and generators

* OpenVADL as a whole is released under the GNU General Public License,
  version 3.0 or (at your option) any later version, for details see
  <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

* Parts of OpenVADL have specific licenses which are compatible with
  the GNU General Public License, version 3. Hence each source file
  contains its own licensing information. Source files with no
  licensing information are released under the GNU General Public
  License, version 3.0 or (at your option) any later version.

## Processor specifications

* OpenVADL processor specifications are released under the Apache
  License, Version 2.0 <http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>.

* Parts of OpenVADL processor specifications have specific licenses
  which are compatible with the Apache License, Version 2.0. Hence
  each specification contains its own licensing information.
  Specifications with no licensing information are released under
  the Apache License, Version 2.0.

## Files generated by OpenVADL

* Files generated by OpenVADL are machine generated and therefore can
  not be copyrighted and are in the public domain. OpenVADL includes a
  header for the generated files which states these facts.

* Some files are generated from a template which is to a large part a
  copy of a third party library. In that case the license of the generated
  file is the license of the original file. This is case for some of the
  files generated by the compiler generator for the LLVM compiler infra
  structure. This fact is also stated in the header of the generated file.

## Included third party libraries

OpenVADL includes some third party libraries. Some packages are linked with
the generated artifacts. The following table lists the libraries and packages
with their licence information:

|      license               | package name and description                             |
|:--------------------------:|:---------------------------------------------------------|
| GNU version 2, BSD, MIT    | QEMU - quick emulator                                    |
| Apache 2.0 with exceptions | LLVM - compiler infra structure                          |
| Apache License 2.0         | picocli - a mighty tiny command line interface           |
| BSD 2-Clause               | svg-pan-zoom - simple pan/zoom solution for SVGs in HTML |

Andreas Krall and the OpenVADL team

